[docs] Document overlay ports/triplets in `vcpkg-configuration.json` (#27172)
microsoft/vcpkg: docs/users/registries.md

      - [Registry Objects: `"path"`](#registry-objects-path)
    - [Configuration: `"default-registry"`](#configuration-default-registry)
    - [Configuration: `"registries"`](#configuration-registries)
    - [Configuration: `"overlay-ports"`](#configuration-overlay-ports)
    - [Configuration: `"overlay-triplets"`](#configuration-overlay-triplets)
    - [Example Configuration File](#example-configuration-file)
  - [Package Name Resolution](#package-name-resolution)

>   - [Overlays Resolution](#overlays-resolution)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [Overlays Resolution](#overlays-resolution)
```

The `"packages"` fields of all the package registries must be disjoint.

### Configuration: `"overlay-ports"`

The `"overlay-ports"` field must contain a path or array of paths, which point
to a particular port or a directory containing ports to overlay.

### Configuration: `"overlay-triplets"`

The `"overlay-triplets"` field must contain a path or array of paths, which point

> to a directory containing triplets to overlay.

Reviewer 2: does `"overlay-ports":  "/team-ports",` actually work or should it be `"overlay-ports": [ "/team-ports" ],` ?
The wording implies that the former does work.

The `"packages"` fields of all the package registries must be disjoint.

### Configuration: `"overlay-ports"`

The `"overlay-ports"` field must contain an array of paths, which point
to a particular port or a directory containing ports to overlay. Paths should be

> absolute or relative to `vcpkg-configuration.json`.

Author: Thanks, I've committed all these changes

The `"packages"` fields of all the package registries must be disjoint.

### Configuration: `"overlay-ports"`

> The `"overlay-ports"` field must contain an array of paths. Each path in the array must point
> to either: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An array of port overlay paths.

Each path in the array must point to either:
```

(and a similar change to `overlay-triplets`)

      "baseline": "dacf4de488094a384ca2c202b923ccc097956e0c",
      "packages": [ "beicode", "beison" ]
    }
  ],
  "overlay-ports": [ "/team-ports",

>                      "c:project/my-ports/fmt",

Reviewer 3: This line needs a slash after `:` (if it is an absolute path).

Author: I missed that! thanks!

                     "/custom-ports"
   ],

>   "overlay-triplets": [ "/my-triplets" ]

Reviewer 4: I think it is a very bad example to use absolute paths here.

- If the default registry is set to `null`, error out; otherwise
- use the built-in registry.

## Overlays Resolution

Overlay ports and overlay triplets will be resolved in sequential order, 
and if configured in multiple places will follow the following priority:

- Overlays configured through the command line
- Overlays configured in the manifest
- Overlays configured via environment variables

> 

Reviewer 2: I think this needs a few actual examples. Port a in different overlays -> which overlay/port will win. 

Basically, the sentence `will be resolved in sequential order, ` actually needs a bit more explaining in the context of vcpkg. The question here is: **What does resolving in sequential order mean for/within vcpkg?** Somebody not knowing vcpkg in detail probably has no idea what this could mean.

Author: It certainly is a weird wording. There is an example of what I meant with "sequential port resolution" in https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg/blob/master/docs/specifications/ports-overlay.md - which is where I would go to know more about how port overlays work. 

Not sure if we should just copy the entire example here... I could change the wording to match the way it is explained on the `ports-overlay.md` doc:

> Port name resolution follows the order in which additional paths are specified, with the first match being selected for installation, and falling back to <vcpkg-root>/ports if the port is not found in any of the additional paths.
> 
> No effort is made to compare version numbers inside the CONTROL files, or to determine which port contains newer or older files.

Or I could add the link to docs/specifications/ports-overlay.md to direct to more info

Reviewer 2: > Or I could add the link to docs/specifications/ports-overlay.md to direct to more info

probably would be the best to add the link.

Reviewer 5: I think the right thing to do is document the behavior in this document even if you have to repeat what is in the spec. 

Specifications are there to reflect original design intentions and decisions. We don't expect specifications to be kept up to date with current tool behavior. If something is only documented through specification, then it is a documentation bug and should be fixed.

- If the default registry is set to `null`, error out; otherwise
- use the built-in registry.

## Overlays Resolution

Overlay ports and overlay triplets will be resolved in the order in which
additional paths are specified, with the first match being selected for installation,

> and falling back to `/ports` if the port is not found in any of the additional paths.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
and falling back to `{vcpkg root}/ports` (or as specified by `--x-builtin-ports-root`) if the port is not found in any of the additional paths.
```

In general, this paragraph needs better writing

- If the default registry is set to `null`, error out; otherwise
- use the built-in registry.

> ## Overlays Resolution
> 
> Overlay ports and overlay triplets will be resolved in the order in which
> additional paths are specified, with the first match being selected for installation,
> and falling back to `{vcpkg root}/ports` (or as specified by `--x-builtin-ports-root`) if the port is not found in any of the additional paths.
> 
> If configured in multiple places, overlays will follow the following priority:
> 
> - Overlays configured through the command line
> - Overlays configured in `vcpkg-configuration.json`
> - Overlays configured via environment variables

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Overlays Resolution

Overlay ports and triplets are resolved using the following priority:
1. Overlays from the command line
2. Overlays from `vcpkg-configuration.json`
3. Overlays from the `VCPKG_OVERLAY_[PORTS|TRIPLETS]` environment variable.

Additionaly, each method has its own evaluation order:

* Overlays from the command line are evaluated from left-to-right in the order each argument is passed, with each `--overlay-[ports|triplets]` argument adding a new overlay location.
* Overlays from `vcpkg-configuration.json` are evaluated in the order of the `"overlay-[ports|triplets]"` array.
* Overlays set by `VCPKG_OVERLAY_[PORTS|TRIPLETS]` are evaluated from left-to-right. Overlay locations are separated by an OS-specific path separator (`;` on Windows and `:` on non-Windows).
```

- If the default registry is set to `null`, error out; otherwise
- use the built-in registry.

> ## Overlays Resolution

Reviewer: It would also be great to add cross-linking from config-environment.md and common-options.md back to here.
